Dave Schimel (Editor):

Your revision should be minor but I'd ask that you reflect on one issue.  You focus a fair amount of attention and analysis on a particular set of plant functional types.  This term has come to mean the limited set of types found in DGVMs and remote sensing based biogeography, though it was originally a more ecological concept, for example in the work of Grimes and colleagues, whose concept was actually trait based.  The PFTs defined and used in models were a convenience in the 1990s that have become enshrined in hard-to-change code, but in light of this study and others make less and less sense.

For example, the PFTs defined by convenience in modeling and limited data, as well as detectability by AVHRR and MODIS, show more detail and more types in the less-diverse parts of the world while lumping the highly diverse tropics into a much smaller array.  Butler et al (2017) as well as radar-based remote sensing show that the assumption that the tropic forests represent a single functional type too be false, with in particular Africa and tropical South America having systematically different values.

While PFT-models have great inertia, work like this paper and others shows even the concept to be less a useful intermediate and more a pragmatic compromise given 20-year old knowledge and not obviously a good way to continue on.  Your own work, and some of the concluding discussion shows that the CLM PFTs and they ilk are not particularly well-founded.  Both reviewers pushed you in the previous revision to be less accepting of PFTs and I also encourage you strongly to add to the discussion a critical assessment in light of correlation and covariance structure of the current or likely future versions of the PFT approach.

You have a unique vantage with these data and I encourage you to be less bound to the status quo.  And, speaking as one of the team that selected the CLM PFTs many years ago, I can tell you that they have more credence than the amount of thought that went into picking them justifies!  This needn't be a major revision, but it is worth some thought.  New emerging data, similar to global remote sensing when the CLM scheme was built, may enable entirely new approaches.
